client/README.md, before:

# ODS Provisioning App Frontend

## Status

This first version of the new frontend stack was introduced as an experimental feature within OpenDevStack 3.x
([original issue](https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/issues/518)). It can be activated for users with a
`frontend.spa.enabled` feature flag in Spring Boot.

OpenDevStack NEXT will include this new frontend activated by default (without featue flag).

To contribute to the further development, see section "Contributions welcome!" further down.

## Stack

- [Angular](https://angular.io/) as single page application framework
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) as unit testing framework
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as pre-commit-hook

See package.json for up-to-date version information.

## Getting started

### 1. Install dependencies

- Eventually, install NPM first
- Run `npm install` to install all dependencies

### 2. Configure API access from localhost

The easiest way to run the Provisioning App frontend locally and using real data is to configure an API proxy:

Copy the content from `proxy.conf.template.json` into a new `proxy.conf.json` file (which is gitignored) and adapt it to your needs.

Doing this there's no need to run Spring Boot locally.

### 3. Test the setup

Run `npm run start:dev` and when it succeeded open `http://localhost:4200` in your browser. You should see the Angular app starting. The app
will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Development

### Dev Server

`npm run start:dev`: Starts a live reload dev server on `http://localhost:4200/`

### Dev Server with SSL localhost

Depending on the authentication strategy configured in Spring Boot it might be necessary to serve localhost over https so that the app
behaves correctly. Although not ideal, we discovered this as the most effortless solution in the time of writing.

1. Create a self-signed certificate and add it to your OS - we found
   [this article](https://medium.com/@richardr39/using-angular-cli-to-serve-over-https-locally-70dab07417c8) quite helpful to set it up.
2. We recommend creating `sslcert` folder - the `.gitignore` file already includes this naming.
3. As mentioned in the article create a new script entry in `package.json`. We recommend naming it `start:dev:ssl`, like this:

`"start:dev:ssl": "ng serve --proxy-config proxy.conf.json --ssl --ssl-key ./sslcert/localhost.key --ssl-cert ./sslcert/localhost.crt"`

### Build

`npm run build`: The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. `yarn build:prod` will be used for the pipeline.

### Tests

- Unittests: `npm run test` / `npm run test:watch`
- E2E (Cypress): TODO

### Linting

- `npm run lint`: Linting for Typescript and SCSS files.

### Prettier

Prettier is used as a pre-commit hook to format js, json, md, ts files. Formatting of html files has been temporarily removed due to
inflexibility in context of Angular component markup.

## Contributions welcome!

We're happy if you'd like to contribute to the further development of the new frontend client. Feel free to check the
[existing issues tagged with "frontend-spa"](https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/labels/frontend-spa) or add a new issue
there.

## Usage of Angular CLI

`ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).

Commit message:

Update eslint + prettier to latest config combination
Based on documentation at https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint

client/README.md, after:

# ODS Provisioning App Frontend

## Status

This first version of the new frontend stack was introduced as an experimental feature within OpenDevStack 3.x
([original issue](https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/issues/518)). It can be activated for users with a
`frontend.spa.enabled` feature flag in Spring Boot.

OpenDevStack NEXT will include this new frontend activated by default (without feature flag).

To contribute to the further development, see section "Contributions welcome!" further down.

## Stack

- [Angular](https://angular.io/)
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io/)
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/)
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) 

See package.json for up-to-date version information.

## Getting started

### 1. Install dependencies

- Eventually, install NPM first
- Run `npm install` to install all dependencies

### 2. Configure API access from localhost

The easiest way to run the Provisioning App frontend locally and using real data is to configure an API proxy:

Copy the content from `proxy.conf.template.json` into a new `proxy.conf.json` file (which is gitignored) and adapt it to your needs.

Doing this there's no need to run Spring Boot locally.

### 3. Test the setup

Run `npm run start:dev` and when it succeeded open `http://localhost:4200` in your browser. You should see the Angular app starting. The app
will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Development

### Dev Server

`npm run start:dev`: Starts a live reload dev server on `http://localhost:4200/`

### Dev Server with SSL localhost

Depending on the authentication strategy configured in Spring Boot it might be necessary to serve localhost over https so that the app
behaves correctly. Although not ideal, we discovered this as the most effortless solution in the time of writing.

1. Create a self-signed certificate and add it to your OS - we found
   [this article](https://medium.com/@richardr39/using-angular-cli-to-serve-over-https-locally-70dab07417c8) quite helpful to set it up.
2. We recommend creating `sslcert` folder - the `.gitignore` file already includes this naming.
3. As mentioned in the article create a new script entry in `package.json`. We recommend naming it `start:dev:ssl`, like this:

`"start:dev:ssl": "ng serve --proxy-config proxy.conf.json --ssl --ssl-key ./sslcert/localhost.key --ssl-cert ./sslcert/localhost.crt"`

### Build

- `npm run build`: The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory.
- `npm run build:prod` will be used for the pipeline.

### Tests

- Unittests: `npm run test` / `npm run test:watch`
- E2E (Cypress): TODO

### Linting

- `npm run lint`: Linting for Typescript (using [angular-eslint](https://github.com/angular-eslint/angular-eslint)) incl. Prettier as an eslint rule. This npm task also runs as a pre-commit hook.

## Contributions welcome!

We're happy if you'd like to contribute to the further development of the new frontend client. Feel free to check the
[existing issues tagged with "frontend-spa"](https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/labels/frontend-spa) or add a new issue
there.

## Usage of Angular CLI

`ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).
