docs/modules/provisioning-app/pages/configuration.adoc, before:

:toc: macro

= Provisioning App: Configuration Guide

toc::[]

== Quickstarters

Available quickstarters can be provided in the container via `/quickstarters/quickstarters.properties`. In the context of OpenShift, this file is supplied by the `ConfigMap` `quickstarters.properties`. The quickstarters defined there will be displayed to the users in the UI when they modify an existing project.

NOTE: When the provisioning app is installed for the first time, a default set of quickstarters (from the `ods-quickstarters` repository) is seeded. As each installation can configure the available quickstarters differently, the `quickstarters.properties` `ConfigMap` is not updated automatically when updating ODS.

A quickstarter needs to have two mandatory entries:
[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.<quickstarter-key>.desc=<description>
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.<quickstarter-key>.repo=<repository>
----

For example:
[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.be-java-springboot.desc=Backend - SpringBoot/Java
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.be-java-springboot.repo=ods-quickstarters
----

This means that in order to provision the quickstarter, the provisioning app will start a Jenkins pipeline based on the `Jenkinsfile` located in the `opendevstack/ods-quickstarters` repository, in the folder `be-java-springboot`. The UI will display the quickstarter as `Backend - SpringBoot/Java`.

Apart from the required properties, there are also optional properties:

[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].create-webhook -> whether a default webhook should be created for this repo or not (true by default)
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].branch -> a branch differing from ods.git-ref property
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].jenkinsfile -> a path to the Jenkinsfile differing from [some-job-name]/Jenkinsfile
----

NOTE: When the quickstarter properties are modified, the provisioning app needs to be restarted for the changes to have effect.

== Permissions

By default no special permissions are set on either confluence / jira / bitbucket or openshift, only system-wide settings are inherited.

However there is a special knob to tighten security (which can be passed with the project input `createpermissionset : boolean`)  - based on three groups that need to be provided as part of the API call / from the userinterface.

. admin group: admin rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories
. user group: read / write rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories
. readonly group: read rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories

The configuration for the permission sets are configured:

. JIRA Project is provisioned with its own permissionset defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/permission-templates/jira.permission.all.txt[src/main/resources/permission-templates/jira.permission.all.txt]
. Confluence Project is provisioned with special permission set defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/permission-templates[src/main/resources/permission-templates/confluence.permission.*]
. Bitbucket Project is provisioned with tight read & write roles
. Openshift Project roles linked to the passed groups (`READONLY` - `view`, `ADMINGROUP` - `admin`, `USERS` - `edit`)

== Project/Space types based on templates

The default jira / confluence project' types are defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application.properties[src/main/resources/application.properties] - and correspondingly in the config maps

----
project.template.key.names=default

jira.project.template.key=com.pyxis.greenhopper.jira:gh-scrum-template
jira.project.template.type=software

confluence.blueprint.key=com.atlassian.confluence.plugins.confluence-software-project:sp-space-blueprint
----

To add a new template - copy, and add your config, based on a new `<name>`

----
jira.project.template.key.<name>=com.pyxis.greenhopper.jira:gh-scrum-template
jira.project.template.type.<name>=software

# optional, can stay as is
confluence.blueprint.key.<name>=com.atlassian.confluence.plugins.confluence-software-project:sp-space-blueprint
----

and add the new +++<name>+++from above to the existing property `project.template.key.names`+++</name>+++

----
# list of templates surfaced to the UI and API
project.template.key.names=default,<name>
----

== Error Handling

Up to (and including) _v1.1.x_ when provisioning failed, corrupt and inconsistent states where left in the bugtracker system, bitbucket etc. which had do be cleaned up _manually_ based on logs. This is rectified and a the new `default` behavior is to see every post to the API as `atomic` unit of work, which in case of failure is tried to be cleaned up (alike functional rollback). This behavior can be turned _off_ by specifying the new property
_provision.cleanup.incomplete.projects_ and setting it to _false_.

== Authentication Configuration
There are to separate authentication options to authenticated a user for the provisioning app.

* CROWD (default)
* OAUTH2

:tip-caption: pass:[&#128161;]
[TIP]
Note that the current OAUTH2 implementation is only used for authentication the user to the provisioning app.
To authentication that is used for the REST - API calls of Atlassian Crowd, Jira, Confluence and Bitbucket is done eighter via the logged in uses credentials (user name and password) or via the technical users, that are configured in the used spring boot profile.


=== Authentication Crowd Configuration

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=crowd # <1>
spring.profiles.active=crowd # <2>
----
<1> configures crowd authentication provider
<2> include crowd profile per default.

The crowd specific configuration is done in the included profile _crowd_, see property documentation inside the profile file _application-crowd.properties_. The provided example configuration is appropriate for a locally installed OpenDevStack environment.

=== Authentication OAUTH2 Configuration
An example of plain oauth2 configuration is given in spring boot profile https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application-outh2.properties[application-oauth2.properties]. The provided example configuration is appropriate for a locally installed OpenDevStack environment, when the _idmanager_ vagrant box is used.

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-oauth2.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=oauth2 # <1>

idmanager.url=http://192.168.56.32:8080 # <2>
idmanager.realm=provisioning-app #<3>

oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression=/claims/roles # <4>

# <5>
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.client-id=ods-provisioning-app
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.client-secret=put-your-secret-here
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.clientName=ods-provisioning-app
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.authorization-grant-type=authorization_code
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.redirectUri={baseUrl}/login/oauth2/code/{registrationId}
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.scope=openid

# <6>
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.authorization-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}-app/protocol/openid-connect/auth
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.token-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/token
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-info-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/userinfo
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.jwk-set-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/certs
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-name-attribute=preferred_username

----
<1> configures oauth2 authentication provider
<2> URL to idmanager. The value defaults to opendevstack idmanager box with keycloak installation
<3> Name of realm that is used
<4> The application reads the user roles from the claim that is inside the oauth2 ID-Token. The property _oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression_ is a JsonPointer - Expression that defines a path to the roles that are extracted from the id token. Details regarding pointer expression can be found at https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-core/javadoc/2.5/com/fasterxml/jackson/core/JsonPointer.html[Jackson-core JsonPointer Documentation]
<5> Defines the OAUTH2 client registration properties, in particular the client name and client secret. See
https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.1.5.RELEASE/reference/html/jc.html#oauth2login-boot-property-mappings[OAUTH2 Spring Boot 2.x Property Mappings] for details.
<6> Defines the OAUTH2 _client.provider_ properties. These properties correspond to the _well-known_ OAUTH2-URIs. In case of keycloak, this URIs can be read out using the  https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/http://192.168.56.32:8080/auth/realms/provisioning-app/.well-known/openid-configuration[.well-known/openid-configuration-link]

Alternatively if your identity provider is Azure AD, a configuration example is given in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application-azure.properties[application-azure.properties]

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-azure.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=oauth2 # <1>
provision.auth.provider.oauth2.user-info-uri=userInfo # <2>

# <3>
# Application ID (also called Client ID)
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-id=<CLIENT_ID>>
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-secret=<CLIENT_SECRET>

# It's suggested the logged in user should at least belong to one of the below groups
# If not, the logged in user will not be able to access any authorization controller rest APIs
azure.activedirectory.user-group.allowed-groups=opendevstack-administrators,opendevstack-users # <4>
azure.activedirectory.environment=global-v2-graph
azure.activedirectory.user-group.key=@odata.type
azure.activedirectory.user-group.value=#microsoft.graph.group
azure.activedirectory.user-group.object-id-key=id
azure.activedirectory.tenant-id=<TENANT_ID> # <5>

oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression=/claims/roles # <6>
oauth2.user.use-email-claim-as-username=true # <7>

# <8>
idmanager.url=https://login.microsoftonline.com
idmanager.realm=${spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-id}

idmanager.disable-logout-from-idm=true # <9>
----
<1> configures oauth2 authentication provider
<2> configure user info uri
<3> registers in spring security azure oauth2 client id and secret
<4> configure allow groups
<5> register azure ad tenant
<6> the application reads the user roles from the claim that is inside the oauth2 ID-Token. The property _oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression_ is a JsonPointer - Expression that defines a path to the roles that are extracted from the id token. Details regarding pointer expression can be found at https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-core/javadoc/2.5/com/fasterxml/jackson/core/JsonPointer.html[Jackson-core JsonPointer Documentation]
<7> configure to use email claim as username
<8> configure name of the ProvApp realm
<9> instruct ProvApp to not logout from identity management provider

=== Authentication to third party apps via technical users
The rest api calles use HTTP _basic access authentication_ to communicate with Jira, Confluence and Bitbucket. The used credentials are read from a pair of properties. For Example, _bitbucket.admin_password_ and _bitbucket.admin_user_ properties are used for Bitbucket, _confluence.admin_user_ and _confluence.admin_password_ are used for Confluence, etc.

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-oauth2.properties
----
# configure technical user for bitbucket. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
bitbucket.admin_password=bitbucket_admin
bitbucket.admin_user=bitbucket_admin

# configure technical user for confluence. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
confluence.admin_password=confluence_admin
confluence.admin_user=confluence_admin

# configure technical user for jira. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
jira.admin_password=jira_admin
jira.admin_user=jira_admin
----
[TIP]
Note: if the pair of properties is not defined for a third party tool, the logged in user's credentials are used to authenticate against the application.
The credentials are read by caling the method _getUserName_ and _getUserPassword_ from https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/java/org/opendevstack/provision/adapter/IODSAuthnzAdapter[IODSAuthnzAdapter]]. See also implementation of _org.opendevstack.provision.services.BaseServiceAdapter#authenticatedCall()_

== FAQ

. Where is the provision app deployed? +
A. the provision application is deployed on openshift, in both `prov-dev` and `prov-test`. `prov-dev` is the development environment in case you want to change / enhance the application, while the production version of the application is deployed in `prov-test`. The URL to get to the provision application, is defined thru a route. Ít's `+https://prov-app-test.+`+++<openshift application="" domains="">+++.+++</openshift>+++
. Where do I find the logs, if something went wrong? +
A. Within the Openshift `pod` of the provision app (in ``project``dev/test, namely in `/opt/provision/history/logs` a logfile is created per `project`)
. Where is the real configuration of the provision application? +
A. The base configuration in the the `application.properties` in the codebase, the setup specific one is in a config map deployed within the `prov-dev/test` project.
. What is the default permission schema in Jira? +
A. the default permission schema in Jira is named `Default Permission Scheme`
. Which role is missing in Jira default permission schema if the project creator cannot access it? +
A. The default permission schema named `Default Permission Scheme` needs the role `owner` to be added to permission `Browser Projects`. Otherwise the project creator (role `owner`) will not be able to access the project.

Commit message:

adds basic auth and pre flight checks docs

docs/modules/provisioning-app/pages/configuration.adoc, after:

:toc: macro

= Provisioning App: Configuration Guide

toc::[]

== Quickstarters

Available quickstarters can be provided in the container via `/quickstarters/quickstarters.properties`. In the context of OpenShift, this file is supplied by the `ConfigMap` `quickstarters.properties`. The quickstarters defined there will be displayed to the users in the UI when they modify an existing project.

NOTE: When the provisioning app is installed for the first time, a default set of quickstarters (from the `ods-quickstarters` repository) is seeded. As each installation can configure the available quickstarters differently, the `quickstarters.properties` `ConfigMap` is not updated automatically when updating ODS.

A quickstarter needs to have two mandatory entries:
[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.<quickstarter-key>.desc=<description>
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.<quickstarter-key>.repo=<repository>
----

For example:
[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.be-java-springboot.desc=Backend - SpringBoot/Java
jenkinspipeline.quickstarter.be-java-springboot.repo=ods-quickstarters
----

This means that in order to provision the quickstarter, the provisioning app will start a Jenkins pipeline based on the `Jenkinsfile` located in the `opendevstack/ods-quickstarters` repository, in the folder `be-java-springboot`. The UI will display the quickstarter as `Backend - SpringBoot/Java`.

Apart from the required properties, there are also optional properties:

[source%nowrap,bash]
.quickstarters.properties
----
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].create-webhook -> whether a default webhook should be created for this repo or not (true by default)
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].branch -> a branch differing from ods.git-ref property
jenkinspipeline.[some-job-name].jenkinsfile -> a path to the Jenkinsfile differing from [some-job-name]/Jenkinsfile
----

NOTE: When the quickstarter properties are modified, the provisioning app needs to be restarted for the changes to have effect.

== Permissions

By default no special permissions are set on either confluence / jira / bitbucket or openshift, only system-wide settings are inherited.

However there is a special knob to tighten security (which can be passed with the project input `createpermissionset : boolean`)  - based on three groups that need to be provided as part of the API call / from the userinterface.

. admin group: admin rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories
. user group: read / write rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories
. readonly group: read rights on the generated projects / spaces / repositories

The configuration for the permission sets are configured:

. JIRA Project is provisioned with its own permissionset defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/permission-templates/jira.permission.all.txt[src/main/resources/permission-templates/jira.permission.all.txt]
. Confluence Project is provisioned with special permission set defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/permission-templates[src/main/resources/permission-templates/confluence.permission.*]
. Bitbucket Project is provisioned with tight read & write roles
. Openshift Project roles linked to the passed groups (`READONLY` - `view`, `ADMINGROUP` - `admin`, `USERS` - `edit`)

== Project/Space types based on templates

The default jira / confluence project' types are defined in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application.properties[src/main/resources/application.properties] - and correspondingly in the config maps

----
project.template.key.names=default

jira.project.template.key=com.pyxis.greenhopper.jira:gh-scrum-template
jira.project.template.type=software

confluence.blueprint.key=com.atlassian.confluence.plugins.confluence-software-project:sp-space-blueprint
----

To add a new template - copy, and add your config, based on a new `<name>`

----
jira.project.template.key.<name>=com.pyxis.greenhopper.jira:gh-scrum-template
jira.project.template.type.<name>=software

# optional, can stay as is
confluence.blueprint.key.<name>=com.atlassian.confluence.plugins.confluence-software-project:sp-space-blueprint
----

and add the new +++<name>+++from above to the existing property `project.template.key.names`+++</name>+++

----
# list of templates surfaced to the UI and API
project.template.key.names=default,<name>
----

== Error Handling

Up to (and including) _v1.1.x_ when provisioning failed, corrupt and inconsistent states where left in the bugtracker system, bitbucket etc. which had do be cleaned up _manually_ based on logs. This is rectified and a the new `default` behavior is to see every post to the API as `atomic` unit of work, which in case of failure is tried to be cleaned up (alike functional rollback). This behavior can be turned _off_ by specifying the new property
_provision.cleanup.incomplete.projects_ and setting it to _false_.

== Authentication Configuration
There are to separate authentication options to authenticated a user for the provisioning app.

* CROWD (default)
* OAUTH2
* Basic Auth

:tip-caption: pass:[&#128161;]
[TIP]
Note that the current OAUTH2 implementation is only used for authentication the user to the provisioning app.
To authentication that is used for the REST - API calls of Atlassian Crowd, Jira, Confluence and Bitbucket is done eighter via the logged in uses credentials (user name and password) or via the technical users, that are configured in the used spring boot profile.


=== Authentication Crowd Configuration

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=crowd # <1>
spring.profiles.active=crowd # <2>
----
<1> configures crowd authentication provider
<2> include crowd profile per default.

The crowd specific configuration is done in the included profile _crowd_, see property documentation inside the profile file https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/test/resources/application-crowd.properties[application-crowd.properties]. The provided example configuration is appropriate for a locally installed OpenDevStack environment.

=== Authentication OAUTH2 Configuration
An example of plain oauth2 configuration is given in spring boot profile https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application-oauth2.properties[application-oauth2.properties]. The provided example configuration is appropriate for a locally installed OpenDevStack environment, when the _idmanager_ vagrant box is used.

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-oauth2.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=oauth2 # <1>

idmanager.url=http://192.168.56.32:8080 # <2>
idmanager.realm=provisioning-app #<3>

oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression=/claims/roles # <4>

# <5>
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.client-id=ods-provisioning-app
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.client-secret=put-your-secret-here
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.clientName=ods-provisioning-app
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.authorization-grant-type=authorization_code
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.redirectUri={baseUrl}/login/oauth2/code/{registrationId}
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.keycloak.scope=openid

# <6>
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.authorization-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}-app/protocol/openid-connect/auth
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.token-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/token
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-info-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/userinfo
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.jwk-set-uri=${idmanager.url}/auth/realms/${idmanager.realm}/protocol/openid-connect/certs
spring.security.oauth2.client.provider.keycloak.user-name-attribute=preferred_username

----
<1> configures oauth2 authentication provider
<2> URL to idmanager. The value defaults to opendevstack idmanager box with keycloak installation
<3> Name of realm that is used
<4> The application reads the user roles from the claim that is inside the oauth2 ID-Token. The property _oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression_ is a JsonPointer - Expression that defines a path to the roles that are extracted from the id token. Details regarding pointer expression can be found at https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-core/javadoc/2.5/com/fasterxml/jackson/core/JsonPointer.html[Jackson-core JsonPointer Documentation]
<5> Defines the OAUTH2 client registration properties, in particular the client name and client secret. See
https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/site/docs/5.1.5.RELEASE/reference/html/jc.html#oauth2login-boot-property-mappings[OAUTH2 Spring Boot 2.x Property Mappings] for details.
<6> Defines the OAUTH2 _client.provider_ properties. These properties correspond to the _well-known_ OAUTH2-URIs. In case of keycloak, this URIs can be read out using the  https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/http://192.168.56.32:8080/auth/realms/provisioning-app/.well-known/openid-configuration[.well-known/openid-configuration-link]

Alternatively if your identity provider is Azure AD, a configuration example is given in https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/resources/application-azure.properties[application-azure.properties]

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-azure.properties
----
provision.auth.provider=oauth2 # <1>
provision.auth.provider.oauth2.user-info-uri=userInfo # <2>

# <3>
# Application ID (also called Client ID)
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-id=<CLIENT_ID>>
spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-secret=<CLIENT_SECRET>

# It's suggested the logged in user should at least belong to one of the below groups
# If not, the logged in user will not be able to access any authorization controller rest APIs
azure.activedirectory.user-group.allowed-groups=opendevstack-administrators,opendevstack-users # <4>
azure.activedirectory.environment=global-v2-graph
azure.activedirectory.user-group.key=@odata.type
azure.activedirectory.user-group.value=#microsoft.graph.group
azure.activedirectory.user-group.object-id-key=id
azure.activedirectory.tenant-id=<TENANT_ID> # <5>

oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression=/claims/roles # <6>
oauth2.user.use-email-claim-as-username=true # <7>

# <8>
idmanager.url=https://login.microsoftonline.com
idmanager.realm=${spring.security.oauth2.client.registration.azure.client-id}

idmanager.disable-logout-from-idm=true # <9>
----
<1> configures oauth2 authentication provider
<2> configure user info uri
<3> registers in spring security azure oauth2 client id and secret
<4> configure allow groups
<5> register azure ad tenant
<6> the application reads the user roles from the claim that is inside the oauth2 ID-Token. The property _oauth2.user.roles.jsonpointerexpression_ is a JsonPointer - Expression that defines a path to the roles that are extracted from the id token. Details regarding pointer expression can be found at https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/https://fasterxml.github.io/jackson-core/javadoc/2.5/com/fasterxml/jackson/core/JsonPointer.html[Jackson-core JsonPointer Documentation]
<7> configure to use email claim as username
<8> configure name of the ProvApp realm
<9> instruct ProvApp to not logout from identity management provider

=== Basic Auth authentication

This option can be enabled to activate basic auth as additional authentication when using `crowd` or `oauth2` as authentication provider.

To enable basic auth this properties needs to be configured:
[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-azure.properties
----
provision.auth.basic-auth.enabled=true
----

The basic auth authentication needs to connect to an identity manager to authenticate users.
Currently only `crowd` is supported for this purpouse.
If you have've chosen to use `oauth2` as provider you can even enable basic auth to connect to crowd server.
For that you will need to add these properties to your configuration:
[source%nowrap,bash]
----
# crowd properties (needed for basic auth)
crowd.local.directory=~/dev/temp
crowd.application.name=<APPLICATION_NAME>
crowd.application.password=<PASSWORD>
crowd.server.url=<CROWD_HOST>
crowd.cookie.domain=<COOKIE_DOMAIN>
----

=== Authentication to third party apps via technical users
The rest api calles use HTTP _basic access authentication_ to communicate with Jira, Confluence and Bitbucket. The used credentials are read from a pair of properties. For Example, _bitbucket.admin_password_ and _bitbucket.admin_user_ properties are used for Bitbucket, _confluence.admin_user_ and _confluence.admin_password_ are used for Confluence, etc.

[source%nowrap,bash]
.application-oauth2.properties
----
# configure technical user for bitbucket. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
bitbucket.admin_password=bitbucket_admin
bitbucket.admin_user=bitbucket_admin

# configure technical user for confluence. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
confluence.admin_password=confluence_admin
confluence.admin_user=confluence_admin

# configure technical user for jira. Do not authenticate via oauth2, since not implemented.
jira.admin_password=jira_admin
jira.admin_user=jira_admin
----
[TIP]
Note: if the pair of properties is not defined for a third party tool, the logged in user's credentials are used to authenticate against the application.
The credentials are read by caling the method _getUserName_ and _getUserPassword_ from https://github.com/opendevstack/ods-provisioning-app/blob/master/src/main/java/org/opendevstack/provision/adapter/IODSAuthnzAdapter[IODSAuthnzAdapter]]. See also implementation of _org.opendevstack.provision.services.BaseServiceAdapter#authenticatedCall()_

== FAQ

. Where is the provision app deployed? +
A. the provision application is deployed on openshift, in both `prov-dev` and `prov-test`. `prov-dev` is the development environment in case you want to change / enhance the application, while the production version of the application is deployed in `prov-test`. The URL to get to the provision application, is defined thru a route. Ít's `+https://prov-app-test.+`+++<openshift application="" domains="">+++.+++</openshift>+++
. Where do I find the logs, if something went wrong? +
A. Within the Openshift `pod` of the provision app (in ``project``dev/test, namely in `/opt/provision/history/logs` a logfile is created per `project`)
. Where is the real configuration of the provision application? +
A. The base configuration in the the `application.properties` in the codebase, the setup specific one is in a config map deployed within the `prov-dev/test` project.
. What is the default permission schema in Jira? +
A. the default permission schema in Jira is named `Default Permission Scheme`
. Which role is missing in Jira default permission schema if the project creator cannot access it? +
A. The default permission schema named `Default Permission Scheme` needs the role `owner` to be added to permission `Browser Projects`. Otherwise the project creator (role `owner`) will not be able to access the project.
